# Surveillance Systems
Maintain the security and safety of facilities, including business, home, or commonly used public areas. 
- Traditional security guards and high-tech sensors both aim to monitor for suspicious or harmful activities
- Organized strategy or setup designed to observe and report activities in a given area
- Surveillance is often comprised of four main categories:
  1. Video Surveillance
  2. Security guards
  3. Lighting
  4. Sensors

## Video Surveillance
The benefit of video surveillance systems is the ability to provide real-time visual feedback and the capability to review the recorded footage after an incident. 
- A wired solution security camera is physically cabled from the device back to the central monitoring station.
- A wireless solution relies on Wi-Fi to send its signal back to the central monitoring station.
- Pan-Til-Zoom (PTZ) can move the camera or its angle to better detect issues during an intrusion

## Security Guards 
Flexible and adaptable forms of surveillance that organizations use, because they can be trained to detect unusual or suspicious behavior. Theyy can also respond immediately to situations, make judment calls, and provide a visual deterrent to potential attackers. 

## Lighting
Proper lighting is crucial for conducting effective surveillance using both video and security guards. 

## Sensors
Devices that detect and respond to external changes in the environment and convert the information into readable signals or data. There are generally four categories of sensors:
  1. Infrared sensors - Detect changes in infrared radiation that is emitted by warm bodies like humans or animals
  2. Pressure sensors - Activated when a specified minimum amount of weight is detected on the sensor that is embedded into the floor or a mat
  3. Microwave sensors - Detect movement in an area by emitting microwave pulses and measuring their reflection off moving objects
  4. Ultrasonic sensors - Measure the reflection of ultrasonic waves off moving objects
